Let's talk about what's going
on when we work with objects.
Back to the whiteboard.
So when I say,
let indecisive equal curly braces,
lunch colon, string sandwich,
what is happening?
Can anybody walk me through it?
By now we're hopefully getting
a little bit in the swing of things.
You wanna walk me through it?
When I say let indecisive equal object,
sandwich.
>> So variables can be indecisive.
>> Okay, so
we're gonna create a new indecisive.
>> Maybe I spelled it right, I don't know.
>> [LAUGH]
>> [LAUGH] The value is going to be
the curly brackets.
>> Okay, JavaScript is gonna
conjure up a new object,
that's what the curly braces are saying.
The curly braces are saying, hey,
JavaScript, this is an object value.
And then because of the, let,
what have you, we're gonna point,
right, from indecisive to this object,
exactly.
Now the question is,
what's happening inside of that object?
Well, similarly,
two arrays where we had indices pointing,
numbers pointing to particular
values in the array.
Now we have within this object,
we kind of have separate pseudovariables.
Which in this case,
like I have a lunch property,
which is sort of a pseudovariable within
the object that points at a certain value.
So in this case, gosh,
I don't remember, sandwich?
[LAUGH] So
now what we have is a reference from
our variable indecisive
to an object value.
And that object value has some pointers,
in this case, one pointer,
that's named lunch, that points
to a string value, that sandwich.
Now what happens when I say,
indecisive.lunch, or
when I ask JavaScript for
indecisive.lunch is,
JavaScript is gonna first look at
the indecisive, follow that arrow.
Find this object, and then the dot
is going to say, okay, JavaScript,
now, on that object, look for
the pointer named lunch.
So when I say, indecisive.lunch,
JavaScript is going
to follow these arrows from
indecisive to the object,
and from the objects
lunch arrow to sandwich.
And so this whole thing is going
to evaluate to sandwich, yeah?
Okay, so now we can probably figure
out what's gonna happen when we say,
indecisive.lunch equals, tacos?
[LAUGH] I think it was.
When I say, indecisive,
my goodness, you get the idea,
.lunch equals tacos in quotes.
Can anybody walk me through what
they think is going to happen?
Jason, would you mind
walking me through it?
>> Sure, so it's going to look
at the indecisive variable,
follow the arrows down to lunch, and
then it's going to replace
sandwich with tacos.
>> Exactly, so
it's now it's going to follow the arrow,
find this arrow that points
that's called lunch,
conjure up a new string value tacos,
and change this arrow,
That's called lunch to point to tacos.
And sandwich is forgotten.
So now if I ask for indecisive.lunch,
JavaScript's gonna follow the arrows again
and find a different
value than it did before.
And what happens when I say,
Indecisive.Snack equals
[LAUGH] chips, great, thanks.
[LAUGH] Whatever, doughnuts,
it did doesn't matter.
So what happens when I say,
indecisive.Snack equals chips?
>> OJ, you wanna talk me through it?
>> Yep, it creates a new property for
the variable indecisive, or for
object indecisive, and then it creates
a reference to the word shapes.
>> Right, so it's gonna follow this arrow,
again, the indecisive,
find that object,
create a new arrow what we'll name,
snack, and conjure up the value,
I've asked for
chips, and point that arrow at that value.
>> Could you create an array
that acts like an object?
>> That's a great question.
>> Conceptually, very similar, right?
>> [LAUGH] they
are conceptually very similar.
Indeed, in fact, arrays are.
>> Are an object?
>> I mean, kind of.
>> Let's go to our console.
>> What's the operator that we can use to
find out what kind of thing a thing is?
>> Typeof?
>> Typeof, so if I do typeof,
if I type it correctly,
if I do typeof snack,
chips, it's an object as we'd expect,
right?
What if I do typeof chips?
Sorry, chips.
Arrays are actually objects.
I've been lying to you.
In JavaScript basically,
everything that is not a primitive value,
everything that's not a string,
or a number, or a Boolean, or
the couple of other types that
we talked about, is an object.
And so
arrays are just a special kind of object
that has certain built-in properties.
For example, it has numeric properties
that I can access values in order.
And those are what we call, indices.
It also has a built-in length
property like we saw before.
So if I ask for chips, tacos, 0,
what's really happening is,
under the hood,
JavaScript has an object with a pointer
called 0 to the first thing in this array.
So JavaScript is just doing some extra
work behind the scenes to make these
brackets do some fancy stuff like create
an object with numeric indices that are in
order, so that the things that I put in
those brackets show up in order in those
numbers.
But under the hood,
they're actually the same.
And so here's a fun thing.
This square brackets notation,
this works on objects too.
So what was my object called, indecisive.
We said that one way we can find
tacos is to say indecisive.lunch.
But we can also find tacos [LAUGH]
by using our square brackets and
using the name of the property
that we want to find.
So this is very similar to how arrays let
us use the square brackets with a number,
which is the name of the property
on the array object.
>> Objects allow us to also use
the square bracket notation to
access values at a named property
if we give the string name
of that property inside those curly braces
>> It doesn't know how to associate those
individual properties to a numeric number,
so you can't do indecisive zero, right?
>> Let's find out, indecisive zero.
Undefined.
>> Because the object doesn't know
how to parse out a numeric index?
>> Well, it's not so much that as
right now my indecisive object,
it has two properties, lunch and snack.
If I type, indecisive square bracket zero,
JavaScript is looking for
a property named zero and
it doesn't find one on this object.
Whereas if I had,
do I still have array one?
Array one, if I look at it, these indices,
notice those colons, they're kind of
the names of properties on that object.
And length is another property
that arrays have, right?
That's just built in that I get for
free when I use those square brackets.
JavaScript does a bunch of work to create
this object with this length property and
with the numeric index properties
of the things that I put inside
those square brackets.
So it's not so much that JavaScript
doesn't know how to look up
a numeric property name,
it's more that when I declare objects,
I am naming properties with strings.
Whereas when I declare arrays,
automatically JavaScript
is naming them numerically.
Does that makes sense?
Awesome, great question.
So now we know two different ways to get
at our values out of an object and arrays.